So that was a lot of information
about events that can trigger and start workflows.
Let's also briefly talk about canceling
and skipping workflow runs, because that's also a thing.
And if we start with canceling it is of course worth noting
that by default workflows get canceled automatically
if jobs fail, though, you will later learn
that you can also, for example add certain rules
that subsequent jobs still execute
even if earlier jobs failed.
But by default, if a job fails
the workflow gets canceled.
And a job fails, if at least one step fails
though that can also be changed as you will learn later.
But you can also cancel workflows manually.
And to briefly show you how that would work
I will change something,
for example, add a comment here,
my tests
and create a new commit in the main branch
added comment
and push this
and here I'm doing this as the owner
of this repository, again, as the original creator.
With that, we got a new workflow running here
and if we click on that, we can always cancel this workflow
by clicking on this cancel workflow button here.
And that does just what the name suggests.
So that's how you can manually cancel a workflow
and that can be useful if you have some error in your code
or your workflow that would cost the workflow to run
for a very long time.
Or if you identify an error right after pushing
and you know that the workflow will fail anyways
and you don't wanna waste the time waiting
until it fails automatically.
So that's how you can cancel it manually.
Now, besides canceling a workflow
you can also skip a workflow.
And skipping simply means that you do something
that would normally trigger the workflow.
So for example, you push to the main branch
but you want to skip this execution.
You want to make sure that this push does not
trigger the workflow, for example,
because by default all matching events start a workflow.
But if you want to skip a workflow execution
there are exceptions for push and pull request event types
that can be specified by you.
To be precise, you can skip a workflow run
that would normally be triggered by adding
a proper commit message or message to your poll request.
To show you what I mean, here's a another example.
Let's say I add yet another comment,
and of course if I add comments like this,
I might not wanna run my workflow
because I know that these comments don't change my code.
There is no reason to run my tests or redeploy.
I just wanted to add a comment.
So therefore, of course I still create a commit maybe
because I want to save these comments in a new commit.
But now I can skip a workflow run that would normally
be triggered by pushing this to the main branch
on the remote repository by adding my message
which could be added comments.
And then thereafter, in square brackets, skip ci
or skip actions or a couple of other keywords
which you of course find in the official documentation.
If you add one of these messages
to your commit message
or to the latest commit of a pull request,
that pull request or push will not trigger a workflow
that would otherwise be triggered.
So now here, if I now push this
to the main branch
because this is on the main branch
if I push this to my repository,
you will see under actions here
that no new workflow was started.
I have that one workflow here, which I canceled before
but no new workflow run was triggered
because my latest commit had this special message,
this special annotation with skip ci.
And that can also be useful because sometimes you know
that it doesn't make sense to trigger your workflow
and in order to save time and possibly also cost
if you're paying for it
you then might want to add an annotation like this.